---
layout: post
title: Introducing the John Henry Committee
tags: [meta]
---

The John Henry Committee is a collection of tech workers and
organizers drawn from a range of groups and organizations, including [Amazon Employees
for Climate Justice](https://www.amazonclimatejustice.org/), the
[Times Tech Guild](https://nytimesguild.org/),
[Turkopticon](https://turkopticon.net/),  workers organized with
[Code-CWA](https://code-cwa.org/), as well as
[DAIR](https://www.dair-institute.org/),  [Tech Workers
Coalition](https://techworkerscoalition.org), and [Collective Action
in Tech](https://collectiveaction.tech/). We assembled together
because we recognized the wide range of tech employeers rolling out AI
projects and mandates over the head of and without the input of their
workers. Even worse, they have been using these initiatives as a way
to attack our working conditions -- instituting speedups, justifying
layoffs and headcount reductions, and and degrading the quality of our
products.

We know from our experience as organizers that workers are not
helpless in the face of these initiatives -- we have the tools to
demand our seat at the table, and our say in how technology is
implemented and deployed in our workplaces. We believe every employer
with new technology mandates can and should be answered with organized
groups of workers who can ensure we get our collective say. This
project is a place for us to assemble information and resources to
help take a stand.

If you would like to get in touch or get involved, please reach out to
us at [johnhenry@techworkerscoalition.org](mailto:johnhenry@techworkerscoalition.org).
